Sung/vscode-env-vars (#4803)
TobikoData/sqlmesh: docs/guides/vscode.md

If you have environment variables that are needed by the context and the language server, you can use one of these approaches to pass variables to the language server:

- Open VSCode from a terminal that has the variables set already. 
  - If you have `export ENV_VAR=value` in your shell configuration file (e.g. `.zshrc` or `.bashrc`) when initializing the terminal by default, the variables will be picked up by the language server if opened from that terminal.

> - Use environment variables pulled from somewhere else dynamically (e.g. a `.env` file) in your root project directory. This will automatically be picked up by the language server through the python environment that the extension uses.
> - Set the environment variables in the python environment that the extension uses. You can find detailed instructions [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/environments#_environment-variables)

Reviewer: These are the same. The way we inject `.env` is the python extension and that is the docs to it. 

```suggestion
- Use environment variables pulled from somewhere else dynamically in your `config.py` for example by connecting to a secret store
- By default, a `.env` file in your root project directory will automatically be picked up by the language server through the python environment that the extension uses. For exact details on how to set the environment variables in the Python environment that the extension uses, see [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/environments#_environment-variables)
```

You can verify that the environment variables are being passed to the language server by printing them in your terminal. 

1. `Cmd +Shift + P` (`Ctrl + Shift + P` in case of Windows) to start the VSCode command bar
   ![print_env_vars](./vscode/print_env_vars.png)
2. Select the option: `SQLMesh: Print Environment Variables`
3. You should see the environment variables printed in the terminal
   ![terminal_env_vars](./vscode/terminal_env_vars.png)

> If you change your environment variables in the terminal during development (e.g. `export DATABASE_PASSWORD='XYZ'`), you must restart the language server for the changes to take effect. You can do this by running the following command in the terminal:

Reviewer: nit: This could be read as you could run that export in a terminal and then they would appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you change your setup during development (e.g., add variables to your shell config), you must restart the language server for the changes to take effect. You can do this by running the following command in the terminal:
```

If you have environment variables that are needed by the context and the language server, you can use one of these approaches to pass variables to the language server:

> - Open VSCode from a terminal that has the variables set (e.g. `.zshrc` or `.bashrc`). This will automatically be picked up by the language server only if you have `export ENV_VAR=value` in your shell configuration file when initializing the terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Open VSCode from a terminal that sets environment variables in its configuration file (e.g., `.bashrc` for Bash or `.zshrc` for Zsh). The variables will automatically be picked up by the language server only if you explicitly export them in the shell configuration file like `export ENV_VAR=value`.
```

- Use environment variables pulled from somewhere else dynamically (e.g. a `.env` file) in your root project directory. This will automatically be picked up by the language server.

> - Set the environment variables in the python environment that the extension uses. You can find detailed instructions [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/environments#_environment-variables)

Reviewer: This isn't quite what was intended beforehand, but I'm happy to clarify it. 

1. Open VSCode from a terminal that has the variables set is not about opening shells that have the variables set, if you open VSCode from a terminal with env vars set, it inherits them. 

That's different to

2. The LSP server runs in your shell, and anything you have configured in there gets picked up 

3. You can manually pull in vars in a Python config file as you wish. 

4. `.env` gets pulled because of the Python environment setup. It's not a separate thing. That's how it's being pulled in

Author: Thanks! Updated for accuracy.

> #### Troubleshooting Environment Variables

Author: removed subheader

You can verify that the environment variables are being passed to the language server by printing them in your terminal. 

1. `Cmd +Shift + P` (`Ctrl + Shift + P` in case of Windows) to start the VSCode command bar
   ![print_env_vars](./vscode/print_env_vars.png)
2. Select the option: `SQLMesh: Print Environment Variables`
3. You should see the environment variables printed in the terminal
   ![terminal_env_vars](./vscode/terminal_env_vars.png)

If you change your environment variables in the terminal during development (e.g. `export DATABASE_PASSWORD='XYZ'`), you must restart the language server for the changes to take effect. You can do this by running the following command in the terminal:

1. `Cmd +Shift + P` (`Ctrl + Shift + P` in case of Windows) to start the VSCode command bar
2. Select the option: `SQLMesh: Restart Servers`
   ![restart_servers](./vscode/restart_servers.png)
   ![loaded](./vscode/loaded.png)

   > This loaded message will appear in the lower left corner of the VSCode window.

3. Print the environment variables based on the instructions above to verify the changes have taken effect.

> ### Python environment troubleshooting

Author: replaced with "issues"
